Welcome to play the Island game!!!


Playing mechanics consist of 3 main phases: Moving pawns, sinking tiles and finally spinning the wheel of actor randomness.
There are multiple different actors and a transport to be used by the players.


In the first phase, moving pawns, the player in turn can move pawns or dig for treasure by using their action points.
Every player will have 3 action points and moving or diggind for treasure will use them.
Moving one tile on land will use up one action point as will digging for treasure, but moving in water will use three action points.
Note: You can not dig for treasure in water. Why you ask? Well try having a swim in an ocean and digging a hole in the water.


During the second phase, the player having used up their action points, can sink a tile from the gameboard, that is not yet submerged.
One must however first sink all of the beach tiles (yellow ones) before moving onto forest (green) and mountain pieces (gray).
When a player flips a tile, pawns that were on the tile will be dropped into the water, and a symbol will be shown.
This symbol will tell what kind of actor or transport will be present on the water tile.
If there is no symbol on the tile, it doesn't mean that the game borked itself, it just means that there was a vortex.


In the final phase players spin the wheel of actor randomness and will be given a random type of actor and number or the letter 'D'.
For example, if an icon of a shark and a number 3 pop up, it means the player in turn can move a shark on the gameboard by up to three tiles.
If the letter 'D', which stands for dive, was given instead of number 3, it would mean that the player could move a shark to any water tile.
If there is no icon, it means that the randomized actor was not yet present on the gameboard and naturally can't be moved by the player.


There are four different types of actors and two types of transports. The two types of transports are boat and dolphin.
The boat can be used as a vessel for multiple pawns to navigate the dangerous waters of the notorious island game.
The boat can hold three pawns and the player who has most pawns aboard controls the boat. Moving the boat for one tile costs 1 action point.
If there is a tie between pawns (e.g. 1 pawn from player1 and 1 from player2) both get to control the boat.
Dolphin, unlike the similar looking shark, is a friendly actor, it can be used to move on water tiles using up only one action point per water tile.


Types of actors are shark, kraken, seamunster and wortex.
The shark is a hungry hostile actor, it eats any and all pawns that are in the same water tile with it.
The kraken is a slimy hostile actor, it destroys all boats in the tile, but doesn't harm pawns, dropping the pawns into the water.
The seamunster is a mean hostile actor, it destroys boats like a bully breaking toys and devours pawns for breakfast.
The vortex is a hostile actor, some say it is destruction reincarnate, others say it is Poseidon flushing a toilet, all we know is he is called the Sti...
Whoops, I meant to say that it clears all the surrounding water tiles, and the tile it's on, clean of actors and pawns.


The goal of the game is to get the most points. Points can be earned by digging for treasure and by leading pawns to the coral (magenta tiles).
When a pawn reaches a coral tile, it will disappear and will not be playable anymore, so balance between digging and running straight to the coral.
Oh and try not to get eaten by a shark or a seamunster.


Good luck and may the odds be ever in your favour! 




            ..---..
          .'  _    `.
    __..'  (o)    :
   `..__          ;
          `.       /
            ;      `..---...___
          .'                           `~-. .- ' )
         .                                      ' _.'
        :        Emil Rekola                :
        \        Roope Keskinen        /
         +      2018, ohj3              /
          `.                             ,_.'
            `~--....___...---~'
